$Id: README,v 1.1 1998-09-23 21:03:19 cord Exp $

Instructions:

* Switch 'emulate_httpd_log' off

* Pipe your Logfile in calamaris


Example:

cat access.log.1 access.log.0 |calamaris.pl



Bugs and shortcomings

* If you parse NetCache Logfiles with calamaris, it seems that you can run
into trouble. I've looked for information on the Logfile-format from the
vendor, but it seems that they don't give any info to people who don't want to
tell them their Name and Adress. So, if someone can provide me with that info,
i'll try to put it into calamaris, if not... (i've seen that NetCache produces
broken Logfiles with different counts of fields, is that a buggy version?)

* I've seen problems with vars.pm which seems to get in the perl-distribution
later... if someone point me out which version it was, i'm going to change the
'require 5' for that.

* if you want to parse more than one Logfile (i.e. from the logfilerotate) you
have to put them in chronological sorted order (oldest first) into calamaris,
else you get wrong peak values. (Is this something that i should fix? Don't
think so...)

* If you use the caching function the peak-values can be wrong if the peak is
around the time the log-files were rotated.

* Squid doesn't log outgoing UDP-Requests, so i can't put them into the
statistics without parsing squid.conf. (Javier Puche (Javier.Puche@rediris.es)
asked for this), but i don't think that i should put this into calamaris...
(Check last point of 'Bugs and shortcomings'.)

* It is written in perl. Yea, perl is a great language for something like this
(also it is the only one i'm able to write something like this in).  Calamaris
was first intended as demo for what i wanted from a statistical software. (OK,
it is fun to write it, and it is even more fun to recognize that many people
use the script). For my Caches with about 150MB-Logfile per week it is OK, but
for those people on a heavy loaded Parentcache it is simply to slow. So if
someone wants to rewrite calamaris in a faster language: Feel Free! (But
respect the GNU-License) (and it would be nice if you drop me a line about it)
# There is now a C++-port of an early modified calamaris available which is
(according to the author Jens-S. Voeckler (voeckler@rvs.uni-hannover.de)) much
faster (but it is based on a spin-off of calamaris v1.x).

* Hmmm, while looking through those many different reports i generate, i think
that i generate more than anybody ever wants to now about squid :-) So i added
switches, so everybody can switch on or off the reports wanted. But this is
also a speed disadvantage because of the many checks if set or not...


todos

* add report for byte-peak (inspirated by Andreas Strotmann
<A.Strotmann@Uni-Koeln.DE>) (Don't think that i put this in calamaris v2)

* build graphics (hope i remember who suggested this first, the mail must be
somewhere in my work-mailbox ;-) (This is a thing for calamaris v3, if i ever
going to write it. there are nice gd-libs in perl ;-)

* add real NetCache-Support. The NetCache-Support is rudimentary working, but
is only in some kind of alpha-state. see 'Bugs and Shortcomings' above.
